[workflow] Checkpoint API (#19406)
ray-project/ray: doc/source/workflows/checkpointing.rst

Checkpointing
=============

Introduction
------------

Ray Workflows provides strong fault tolerance and exactly-once execution semantics by checkpointing the workflow DAG before execution and the outputs after execution. However, checkpointing is time consuming, especially when you have large inputs and outputs for workflow steps. When exactly-once execution semantics is not required, you can skip some checkpoints to speed up your workflow.

Besides skipping checkpoints, an alternative is to replace workflow steps with Ray remote functions. But there are 3 reasons against it:

1. You cannot compose a workflow DAG by mixing workflow steps and Ray remote functions.
2. Unlike workflow steps, Ray workflow would not display progress and status of Ray remote functions.

> 3. The remote functions won’t be considered as part of the workflow, so they won’t be recovered automatically when they fail. For example, instead of returning a workflow (step) B in workflow step A, you return a ObjectRef of a remote function. With workflow step B, workflow enables recovery from step B; but with the remote function, the workflow can only recover from step A.

Reviewer: I would skip this, probably too much detail for a docs page.

Reviewer 2: I agree. Should we just delete them for now?

Reviewer: Yeah actually I think it would be best to not include docs right now. I think one of us can take a pass on this in a separate PR.

        # Note that the workflow engine will not begin executing
        # child workflows until the parent step returns.
        # This avoids step overlap and ensures recoverability.
        f1: Workflow = book_flight.step(origin, dest, dates[0])
        f2: Workflow = book_flight.step(dest, origin, dates[1])
        hotel: Workflow = book_hotel.step(dest, dates)
        return finalize_or_cancel.step([f1, f2], [hotel])

Skipping checkpointing the DAG inside ``book_trip`` does not mean we cannot recover from a checkpoint produced “inside” ``book_trip``. In this case, ``book_trip`` returns ``finalize_or_cancel``, so if ``finalize_or_cancel`` returns and checkpointed its output (a python value of another DAG), when resuming ``book_trip``, we can resume from this output checkpoint.

For a top-level workflow (e.g., a workflow in a driver script), it's DAG will be ``checkpointed`` before execution. We can imagine there is an invisible “root” workflow step, where the top-level workflow is its output. This also implies we cannot skip checkpointing the DAG of the top-level workflow, which makes sense (otherwise we cannot recover from the failure of the workflow).

> 

Reviewer: I think this description may actually make it more confusing. I would think about just introducing the API right away and then showing the difference between checkpointing values and sub-workflows in the examples.

Checkpoints Options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

We control the checkpoints by specify the checkpoint options like this:

.. code-block:: python

    data = read_data.options(checkpoint=False).step(10)

> The checkpoint option for a workflow step would be “None”, “True” and “False”. If not specified, it is “None”. The checkpoint option follows the inheriting rule:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The checkpoint option for a workflow step can be `True` or `False`. If `None` is specified, then the workflow step's option will be inherited from its parent. By default, all top-level workflow steps, i.e., those created by the driver will have `checkpoint=True` if no checkpoint option is specified.
```

Reviewer: I think we can skip the rules below with this text.
